                                                               ASSIGNMENT-7

Q1. What is the difference between Procedural and Object oriented programming?
Structured programming-
Procedural  or Structured programming consists of designing a set of procedures (or algorithms) to solve a problem. When the procedures are determined, the  next step was to find appropriate ways to store the data.
Algorithim  -> Data Store 
Object oriented programming  -
 Object oriented programming  puts the data first, then looks at the algorithms to operate on the data.It is reverse order of procedural programming.
•	It Maps to real world 
•	Objects have certain behavior.

Q2.What were the problems with Procedural programming?
The problem with procedural programming is that if there is big software then it require 2,000 procedures for implementation for certain software, all of which manipulate a set of global data. All the changes would be done on global data which leads to ambiguity.

Q3.Define class?
A class is the template or blueprint from which objects are made. Class is a logical entity with no physical existence in memory.

Q4. Define object?
Object is an instance of class which has state and behaviour. Object is a physical entity with physical existence in memory.

Q5. What is the difference between the class and object and give a real world example of each?
A class is a logical entity but object is a physical entity . 
Example of class – car 
Example of object – Baleno 

Q6. Out of class and object which has physical existence and which is logical entity?
A class is a logical entity 
Object is a physical entity . 

Q7. What do you mean by “state”, “behavior” and “identity” with respect of Object?
The object’s state —how does the object react when you invoke those methods? 
The object’s behavior—what can you do with this object, or what methods can you apply to it? 
The object’s identity —how is the object distinguished from others that may have the same behavior and state?

Q9. What are “class members” in terms of class?
The methods and variables defined within a class are called members of the class.

Q10. What is a constructor?
A constructor initializes an object immediately upon creation.  It has the same name as the class in which it resides and is syntactically similar to a method. The constructor is automatically called when the object is created using new operator.

Q11. What is the return type of constructor?
 Constructor have no return type defined not even void. This is because the implicit return type of a class’ constructor is the class type itself.

Q12. What is a parameterized constructor?
 When you want to initialize the state of the object while the object is getting created.or want to pass parameters while creation of object.

Q14. What is a default no argument constructor?
Default constructor is when no argument is passed while creation of object and it is also known as non- parameterized constructor.

Q15. Is it true that a class gets no-argument constructor by default only when there is no other parameterized constructor defined?
Yes , it true that a class gets no-argument constructor by default only when there is no other parameterized constructor defined.

Q16. What is the meaning of “null”, what happens when a reference variable points to “null”, i.e Employee employee = null.
When no value is assign to object by default it is considered as null. For integer it is zero (0) by default.

Q17. What is a method, what is the return type and parameters of a method? Take examples from the Employee class.
Method is a block of code which is used to excute some task repeatedly. If the method does not  return any value , its return type must be void  .
Parameters are essentially variables that receive the value of the arguments passed to the method when it is called.

Q21. What is “this” keyword used for?
 A method  need to refer to the object that invoked it. To allow this, Java defines the this keyword. this can be used inside any method/constructor to refer to the current object.

Q22. What are different access modifiers that can be applied to fields and methods of a class?
•	Public 
•	Protected 
•	Private 

Q23. Describe all the access modifiers?
private - External classes cannot access the member. 
protected - The access level of a protected modifier is within the package and outside the package through child class. If you do not make the child class public, it cannot be accessed from outside the package. 
public - All classes in the application can access the member.

Q24. What is the purpose of private methods?
Private methods purpose is to prevent duplication of code and make data private and not accessed by other user.

Q25. Which access modifier would you use to protect your fields/data?
private is used to protect fields/ data.
